=head1 NAME

cellcc_dump-server - Run the CellCC dump-server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cellcc dump-server> [B<--once>] <I<server>> <I<src_cell>> <I<dst_cell>>+

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cellcc dump-server> runs the CellCC "dump-server", which handles dumping
volumes from AFS to local disk.

Running B<cellcc dump-server> will handle dumping volumes for all jobs syncing
from I<src_cell> to any of the I<dst_cell> cells. The volume will be dumped
from an RO site on the fileserver I<server>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--once>

By default, B<cellcc dump-server> will run as a daemon, periodically waking up
to see if there are new sync jobs that needs a volume dumped. If the B<--once>
flag is passed, instead B<cellcc dump-server> will just check once if there are
any sync jobs that need a volume dumped. If there are, B<cellcc dump-server>
will perform the dump like normal, and then will wait for all dumps to finish,
and then will exit.

This option can be useful for debugging, or if you want to schedule the
scanning of sync jobs yourself, instead of letting B<cellcc dump-server> handle
sleeping and waking on its own.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the "admin" CellCC
configuration, typically in B</etc/cellcc/cellcc_admin.json>, which allows
write operations to the CellCC system. Typically this is only allowed for
administrators or accounts dedicated to this "syncing" functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
