=head1 NAME

cellcc_start-sync - Start a volume sync from one AFS cell to another

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cellcc start-sync> [B<--queue> <I<qname>>] [B<--delete>] <I<src_cell>>
    <I<volume_name>>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<cellcc start-sync> command starts syncing a volume from the given source
cell to all configured destination cells using the CellCC syncing framework.

B<cellcc start-sync> doesn't actually perform the sync itself; it just signals
the other CellCC components to perform the sync. Thus, B<cellcc start-sync>
will return as soon as the sync is scheduled; it does not wait until the volume
has been successfully synced everywhere. Checking on the status of a volume
sync can be done using the L<cellcc_jobs(1)> command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--queue> <I<qname>>

Specify the queue the volume sync job should be organized under. The queue of a
sync job just dictates whether the volume will be restored in parallel with
other volumes or not.

Volumes in different queues will always be able to be restored in parallel with
one another. Volumes in the same queue will be restricted to a maximum level of
parallelism configured in the B<restore/queue/qname/max-parallel> configuration
directive (for a queue that has the name "qname").

If the queue is not specified, the sync job will be treated as in the queue
"default". The "default" queue always exists, and by default has a max
parallelism of 1.

=item B<--delete>

If this flag is specified, B<cellcc start-sync> will delete the specified
volume in all destination cells, instead of trying to sync data.

It is intended to run this command after the volume has been deleted in the
source cell. B<cellcc start-sync> checks first if the volume still exists in
the source cell, and throws an error if the volume still exists.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the "admin" CellCC
configuration, typically in B</etc/cellcc/cellcc_admin.json>, which allows
write operations to the CellCC system. Typically this is only allowed for
administrators or accounts dedicated to this "syncing" functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
