=head1 NAME

cellcc_config - View or check CellCC configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cellcc config> <B<--check> | B<--dump> | B<--dump-all> | <I<key>>>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<cellcc config> command allows the caller to retrieve the value of various
CellCC configuration directives, or export the whole CellCC configuration, or
check if the configuration is valid.

CellCC will try to load the "admin" configuration (typically in
B</etc/cellcc/cellcc_admin.json>), in addition to the public non-admin
configuration (typically in B</etc/cellcc/cellcc.json>). If the caller does not
have access to the "admin" configuration, a warning is shown, but otherwise the
command proceeds without error.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item <I<key>>

If none of the other options are specified, the given argument is assumed to be
a configuration directive. B<cellcc config> will grab the key from the local
configuration, and print out the value to stdout. If the value is not a plain
scalar value (that is, if it is an array or hash), the value will be printed in
JSON.

=item B<--check>

This will check all known configuration directives, and see if they either have
a value configured, or a default. This will also check if the configuration
file is readable and for any other obvious errors.

If any configuration errors are found, the command exits with return code 0.
Otherwise, a list of errors is printed to standard error and the command exits
with a nonzero exit status.

Note that just because B<cellcc config --check> doesn't report any errors,
doesn't necessary mean that a configuration is usable. It is of course possible
to specify cells that don't exist, hostnames that don't exist, files that don't
exist, etc. This just performs a basic check to see that the config files are
readable and that config directives without defaults are specified.

=item B<--dump>, B<--dump-all>

These dump the configuration data to stdout, in JSON format. The difference
between B<--dump> and B<--dump-all> is that B<--dump> just tries to export
information that is actually specified in a configuration file, and omits
exporting default values. On the other hand, B<--dump-all> tries to export all
values that will be used by CellCC.

It is not feasible to actually print all possible values for configuration
directives, since some parameterized directives (like per-cell or per-queue
directives) may take on any number of takes. But for most config directives,
this will print out the configured values.

=back

=head1 CONFIG FILES

The non-admin "public" configuration file is typically
B</etc/cellcc/cellcc.json>. This is where most config directives go, and
anything that is considered non-sensitive should be placed in that file.

There is another file, the "admin" config file, typically
B</etc/cellcc/cellcc_admin.json>, which is used for storing more "sensitive"
information. Specifically, this is to store the read-write database
credentials. This is separated so that unauthenticated users can run commands
like, for example, B<cellcc jobs>, which do not require read-write database
access. But commands like B<cellcc start-sync> can be restricted to
administrators who have read access to the credentials in B<cellcc_admin.json>.

=head1 CONFIGURATION FORMAT

The configuration file format is JSON, with a few small variations to allow
greater ease of use. Specifically, elements can be succeeded by a comma, even
when they are the last element in a list or hash. Comments are also allowed
using the hash symbol "#" or C++-style commands, using //.

Note that in the B<cellcc config> command and other CellCC commands,
configuration keys are separated by a slash, like so: "db/rw/dsn". This is
different from normal JSON notation, which would normally refer to such an
element like "db.rw.dsn".  This is simply done because our configuration keys
include dots much more often than slashes, and so slashes are just more
convenient.

=head1 CONFIGURATION DIRECTIVES

=over 4

=item B<db/ro/dsn>

The DSN to use for read-only access to the central database. For example:
"DBI:mysql:database=cellcc;host=db.example.com;port=3306" will configure a
mysql database called "cellcc" on host db.example.com using port 3306.

=item B<db/ro/user>, B<db/ro/pass>

The username and password to use when connecting to the B<db/ro/dsn> database.

=item B<db/rw/dsn>, B<db/rw/user>, B<db/rw/pass>

These are the same as their B<db/ro> equivalents, but for read-write database
access. B<db/rw/dsn> is optional, and will default to the value specified in
B<db/ro/dsn>.

=item B<cells/><I<cell>>B</dst-cells>

This is an array of cells that <I<cell>> should sync volumes to. For example,
setting B<cells/source.example.com/dst-cells> to ["na.example.com",
"eu.example.com"] indicates that volumes in the cell B<source.example.com>
should be synced to the cells B<na.example.com> and B<eu.example.com>.

=item B<volume-filter/command>

If this is specified, this command is run by B<cellcc start-sync> to determine
if a volume should be synced. The command is run with the following environment
variables:

=over 4

=item CELLCC_FILTER_VOLUME

The name of the volume to be synced.

=item CELLCC_FILTER_SRC_CELL

The name of the cell we're syncing from.

=item CELLCC_FILTER_DST_CELL

The name of the cell we're syncing to.

=item CELLCC_FILTER_QNAME

The name of the queue for the sync job.

=item CELLCC_FILTER_OPERATION

This is set to one of the following values:

=over 4

=item C<sync>

This means cellcc is sending new data to the volume in the destination cell.

=item C<delete>

This means cellcc is deleting the volume in the destination cell.

=back

=back

The command must print the string "exclude" or "include" by itself on a single
line on stdout. If the command prints "exclude", then the volume is not synced.
If the command prints "include", then the volume is synced. The command also
must return with an exit code of 0, or else it is assumed that it encountered
some fatal error.

By default, we "include" all volumes. That is, all volumes are synced when
given to B<cellcc start-sync>.

=item B<vos/localauth>

If set to 1, then we will use B<-localauth> for authenticated B<vos> commands.
Otherwise, we will try to authenticate using a keytab via B<k5start>.

This defaults to 0.

=item B<vos/command>

This indicates the command to use for running B<vos> commands. The default is
just "vos".

=item B<vos/princ>

When not running in B<-localauth> mode, this indicates the principal we should
authenticate to AFS as in order to run authenticated B<vos> commands. By
default, this is set to null, which means we will pick the first principal name
in the keytab specified by B<vos/keytab>.

This has no effect if localauth mode is turned on.

=item B<vos/keytab>

When not running in localauth mode, this indicates the keytab we should use to
authenticate to AFS in order to run authenticated B<vos> commands.

This defaults to B</etc/cellcc/vos.keytab>. This has no effect if localauth
mode is turned on.

=item B<k5start/command>

For commands which need k5start for authentication, this provides the command
to use for k5start. Defaults to "k5start".

=item B<aklog/command>

This specifies the command to use for running aklog. We need to run aklog when
running B<vos> in non-localauth mode in order to authenticate to AFS.

Defaults to "aklog".

=item B<log/level>

Sets our default global logging level. Possible values are "debug", "info",
"warn", and "error". Defaults to "info".

=item B<log/config>

If specified, CellCC will use the given Log4Perl or Log4j configuration file
for logging in daemon processes. See the Log::Log4Perl or Log4j documentation
for details.

By default, CellCC uses an internally-generated configuration that logs to the
syslog "daemon" facility. If our log level is "debug", we also log to stderr.

=item B<fqdn>

This indicates the fully-qualified domain name of the running host. By default
this uses the Perl Sys::Hostname module to determine the local hostname, but
you can override that by specifying a value here.

Note that it doesn't make much sense to specify this in a config file that is
shared amongst several machines. It is still useful, though, if the machines do
not share the same configuration file, or if you specify this option using the
B<-x> command-line option.

=item B<remctl/port>

This specifies the port to use for remctl communication. The restore-server and
dump-server communicate with each other using remctl.

=item B<remctl/princ>

This specifies the krb5 principal to authenticate as when communicating over
remctl. This has no default, and we cannot automatically determine the
principal to use, since the remctl server needs to know what principal is
allowed to execute commands.

=item B<remctl/service>

This specifies the service principal to use when communicating over remctl (the
B<-s> option to the B<remctl> command-line command).

By default this is B<host/<FQDN>>, including the literal greater-than and
less-than signs. Any instance of the string "<FQDN>" in this directive will be
replaced by the hostname that we are trying to contact.

=item B<remctl/client-keytab>

This specifies the keytab file we should use when authenticating to communicate
over remctl. By default, we use B</etc/cellcc/remctl-client.keytab>.

=item B<remctl/command>

The command to run when using remctl to communicate. Note that CellCC runs the
actual B<remctl> command, instead of using any remctl perl bindings. (It's just
easier to wrap the command in k5start that way.)

By default this is just "remctl".

=item B<pick-sites/command>

This specifies the command to run when the restore-server needs to determine
what servers to create a volume on. That is, when the restore-server restores a
volume, if the volume already exists, the restore-server just restores the
volume to the existing location. But if the volume does not already exist, the
restore-server needs to know what server to B<vos create> on, and which to
B<vos addsite> on.

Since this decision can be dynamic, the restore-server determines this by
running this "pick-sites" command.

The command is run with the following environment variables:

=over 4

=item CELLCC_PS_VOLUME

The volume name to be created

=item CELLCC_PS_SRC_CELL

The name of the "source" cell we are syncing from.

=item CELLCC_PS_DST_CELL

The name of the "destination" cell, where the new volume will be created.

=item CELLCC_PS_CELL

This is identical to CELLCC_PS_DST_CELL. It is only provided for backwards
compatibility purposes.

=back

The command must output a list of sites to use for the volume. The first site
specified will be used as the RW site, as well as an RO site. The remaining
sites will be used as RO sites. For each site, the command must output a single
line on stdout in the format:

    servername partition

For example, to create new volumes on fs1.example.com vicepa, with RO copies on
fs1.example.com vicepa, fs3.example.com vicepd, and fs10.example.com vicepb,
the script should output the following on stdout:

    fs1.example.com vicepa
    fs3.example.com vicepd
    fs10.example.com viceb

The script must also exit with exit status 0. If a non-zero exit status is
detected, the sync job will fail.

=item B<dump/monitor-intervals>

This indicates how frequently the dump-server will monitor progress of dumps,
and report that progress to the central database. This is an array, and each
item in that array indicates how many seconds to wait for that interval.

For example, setting this to "[1,2,5]" will cause the dump-server to report
status after 1 second, then report status after 2 seconds, and then report
status after every 5 seconds thereafter.

=item B<dump/checksum>

This indicates what checksum algorithm to use when verifying volume dump blobs.
The default is MD5, which is not as cryptographically secure as other
algorithms, but is fast. The algorithm specified here does not need to be
cryptographically secure, since the volume blobs are coming from trusted
sources. The purpose of this checksum is just to check if any errors have
caused the volume blob to become corrupted in transit.

=item B<dump/scratch-dir>

This is the directory the dump-server puts volume blobs in, after they have
been dumped to disk and before they have been retrieved by a restore-server.
This defaults typically to B</var/lib/cellcc/dump-scratch>.

=item B<dump/scratch-minfree>

When we dump a volume to B<dump/scratch-dir>, we check if there will be at
least B<dump/scratch-minfree> bytes still free after we do the dump. This
allows a kind of safety byffer to try to avoid filling up the disk that the
scratch dir is on.

If this directive is set to null, this check is completely skipped; we don't
look at the amount of disk space free on the scratch dir at all.

This directive can be just a plain number, or it can have a suffix of K, M, G,
T, P, E, or Z, corresponding to kilobytes, megabytes, etc. The non-suffix part
of this value must be a plain integer.

For example, you can specify "104857600", or "100M". The default value is
"100M".

=item B<dump/check-interval>

This indicates how often (in seconds) the dump-server checks for new sync jobs
to appear. The default is 60 seconds.

=item B<dump/max-parallel>

This indicates how many dumps a dump-server will perform in parallel. The
default is 10.

=item B<dump/incremental/enabled>

This indicates whether CellCC will use incremental volume dumps. If set to 0,
CellCC will always perform a full dump of the relevant volume from the source
cell. If set to 1, CellCC will try to dump only the changes needed from the
source cell, and apply those changes to the volume in the destination cell.

If incremental dumps are enabled, CellCC will determine what data to dump by
inspecting the volume in the destination cell from the relevant CellCC
dumpserver. Thus, the server running the CellCC dumpserver for the destination
cell C<dest.example.com> must be able to run "vos examine" commands for volumes
in the cell C<dest.example.com>. CellCC does not need any authentication to do
this, but the relevant firewall rules may need to be adjusted to allow this to
occur. If CellCC cannot run those commands successfully, syncs will fail as
long as incremental dumps are enabled.

The default value is 0. If the above statements about needing to run "vos
examine" from the CellCC dumpserver machine are not a problem for you, you will
probably want to enable this, since it usually reduces the bandwidth and load
generated by CellCC significantly.

=item B<dump/incremental/skip-unchanged>

By default, if incremental dumps are enabled, CellCC will always dump at least
a little bit of data to sync a volume, even if the volume has not changed at
all since the last sync. This is the same as the behavior in the OpenAFS "vos
release" command, and this occurs because it is difficult to be certain that an
AFS volume has not changed.

However, CellCC can make a reasonable guess if a volume has not changed since
the last sync. This is not guaranteed to always be correct, but if CellCC
guesses incorrectly, the only problem is that a volume is not synced, when it
should be synced; data will not become corrupted or anything like that.

Setting this option to 1 tells CellCC to skip syncing volumes if it looks like
the volume has not changed since the last sync. Setting it to 0 makes CellCC
always sync at least a little bit of data each time.

The default value is 0.

=item B<dump/incremental/fulldump-on-error>

By default, if an error occurs while CellCC is examining the metadata for the
remote volume to calculate an incremental dump, the sync will fail (just like
for any other error). Setting this value to 1 will instead cause CellCC to
fallback to performing a full dump for the volume, instead of an incremental
dump.

The default value is 0.

=item B<restore/monitor-intervals>

This is the same as B<dump/monitor-intervals>, but is for the restore-server
when performing volume restores.

=item B<restore/scratch-dir>

This is the directory the restore-server will use for storing volume blobs
retrieved from a dump-server, before the volume has been restored to OpenAFS.
The default is typically B</var/lib/cellcc/restore-scratch>.

=item B<restore/scratch-minfree>

This is the same as B<dump/scratch-minfree>, but for the restore-server instead
of the dump-server. See B<dump/scratch-minfree>.

=item B<restore/check-interval>

This is identical to B<dump/check-interval>, but for the restore-server instead
of the dump-server.

=item B<restore/queues/><I<qname>>B</max-parallel>

This indicates how many restores the restore-server will perform in parallel
for volume sync jobs in the queue named by <I<qname>>. An explanation of queues
can be found in the manpage for L<cellcc_start-sync(1)>.

=item B<restore/queues/><I<qname>>B</release/flags>

This can be used to pass extra options to the "vos release" command line when
CellCC releases a volume. These options are specific to the queue named by
<I<qname>> and must be given as an associative array as accepted by
AFS::Command, with the option name as the key and its argument as the value. For
example, to pass "-encrypt", specify the following:

  restore: {
    queues: {
      <qname>: {
        release: {
          flags: {
            encrypt: 1,
          },
        },
      },
    },
  },

=item B<xfer/monitor-intervals>

This is the same as B<dump/monitor-intervals>, but is for the restore-server
when transferring volume blobs from a dump-server.

=item B<release/monitor-intervals>

This is the same as B<dump/monitor-intervals>, but is for the restore-server
when releasing a volume to the local cell.

=item B<check/check-interval>

This is identical to B<dump/check-interval>, but is for the check-server, and
indicates how often the check-server checks all running jobs for errors.

=item B<check/error-limit>

When a stage in a sync job fails, the job is marked as failing, but the
check-server will retry the job starting at the last successful stage. If this
is done more than B<check/error-limit> times, the check-server assumes the
volume will not proceed, and permanently stops the sync job until someone runs
the B<cellcc retry-job> command, or the job is killed dwith B<ccc-debug
kill-job> or something similar.

This defaults to 5, so a job will be retried 5 times.

=item B<check/alert-errlimit-interval>

When a stage in a sync job fails more than B<check/error-limit> times, cellcc
will send an ALERT_ERRORLIMIT alert for that sync job. However, the state of
the sync job has not changed, so ALERT_ERRORLIMIT alerts will continue to be
sent for that job if it is not immediately fixed.

To avoid alerts from constantly being sent, ALERT_ERRORLIMIT alerts are only
sent at most once per job every B<check/alert-errlimit-interval> seconds. The
default value is 6 hours, so ALERT_ERRORLIMIT alerts will not be sent for the
same job more frequently than once every 6 hours.

=item B<check/alert-stale-seconds>

This specifies how stale a job must be, in seconds, before the check-server
will send an alert about it. A job is "stale" if no CellCC stage has updated
the job at all in a certain amount of time.

A "stale" job is not necessarily an error, but maybe indicates a "stuck" sync
job.

The default is 30 minutes.

=item B<check/alert-old-seconds>

This specifies how old a job must be, in seconds, before the check-server will
send an alert about it. A job is "old" if it has just been running for more
than a certain amount of time, regardless of how long it has been since the
last update.

An "old" job is not necessarily an error, but maybe warrants investigation as
to why a sync may take so long.

The default is 24 hours.

=item B<check/alert-cmd/txt>

This specifies a command to run to alert the administrators of errors during
volume syncs. The alerts will be given to the command on standard input, and
will be formatted as plain human-readable text.

Such a command might send an email or alert some other notification system.
This is null by default, in which case, no command is run.

=item B<check/alert-cmd/json>

This is the same as B<check/alert-cmd/json>, except that the alerts are
formatted as JSON objects.

To see exactly what such a generated object looks like, you can use the
B<ccc-debug test-alert> command to generate a set of fake alerts. Just run that
command, possibly with "-x check/alert-cmd/json=/path/to/command" in order to
test what happens when alerts are generated.

=item B<check/alert-log>

This is like B<check/alert-cmd/txt>, but instead of running a command for any
alerts, the alert information is just logged like any other warning message
that CellCC might generate. Set this to 1 to log alerts in this way, or 0 to
turn this off.

By default, this is set to 1.

=item B<check/archive-jobs>

If set to 1, jobs that finish successfully will be copied to a C<jobshist>
table in the configured database. CellCC does not touch that table besides
copying completed jobs to it, but that table can be useful for other tooling
examining statistics on completed jobs.

If set to 0, completed jobs are not recorded anywhere (besides being logged on
the CellCC check-server), and are just deleted when finished.

By default, this is set to 1.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the non-admin CellCC
configuration, typically in B</etc/cellcc/cellcc.json>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
