=head1 NAME

cellcc_restore-server - Run the CellCC restore-server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<cellcc restore-server> [B<--once>] <I<dst_cell>>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<cellcc restore-server> runs the CellCC "restore-server", which handles
transferring volume dumps from a dump-server to a restore-server, restoring
volume blobs to AFS, and releasing volumes.

Running B<cellcc restore-server> will handle trasferring, restoring, and
releasing volumes for all jobs syncing to I<dst_cell> cells, from any source
cell. The volume will be restored to the existing RW site for the volume in the
destination cell, if it already exists. If the volume does not already exist,
the volume is created using locations obtained from running
B<pick-sites/command> (see L<cellcc_config(1)>).

Sync jobs that are processed by B<cellcc restore-server> are limited in
parallelism according to what queue the sync job is in. See
L<cellcc_start-sync(1)> for a brief explanation of queues.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<--once>

By default, B<cellcc restore-server> will run as a daemon, periodically waking
up to see if there are new sync jobs that need transferring, restoring, or
releasing. If the B<--once> flag is passed, instead B<cellcc restore-server>
will just check once if there are any relevant sync jobs. If there are,
B<cellcc restore-server> will perform the relevant operations like normal, and
then will wait for all operations to finish, and then will exit.

This option can be useful for debugging, or if you want to schedule the
scanning of sync jobs yourself, instead of letting B<cellcc restore-server>
handle sleeping and waking on its own.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer of this command must be able to read the "admin" CellCC
configuration, typically in B</etc/cellcc/cellcc_admin.json>, which allows
write operations to the CellCC system. Typically this is only allowed for
administrators or accounts dedicated to this "syncing" functionality.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2015, Sine Nomine Associates.

See the provided LICENSE file for licensing terms.
